So I'll clear this and I'll show you another method you have available on arrays,
the push method which you saw earlier. If I push 4
and then I print this array again,
you already saw this in a previous lecture.
So what will show up in the console? You see 1, 2, 3, 4.
Push basically adds an element to the end of the array
and now while technically here, I could have achieved the same by accessing the element with
the index three, which is just the indexed element after three,
this of course is only theoretically the same because in practice, oftentimes you don't know how long
your array is and you can't hardcode indices which you want to access.
Therefore pushing with this method makes sure that the value is always added at the end of the array
and you're not accidentally overwriting values or leaving some empty spaces undefined thereafter.
So this is what push does
and of course this is very important and you'll oftentimes use push in your code.
What do you think will happen if I go to my array here and I'll add a comma here after and then I'll
leave this push method?
So I'm kind of extending this array here with one extra element which stays undefined since I'm entering
nothing here
and then I'm pushing something.
Will this be overwritten?
Let's see what shows up in my console,
So it looks like it got overwritten but actually, if I remove this push method here and I print this again,
you'll see it was never there in the first place.
I need to add another comma here to create such an undefined space here
and now if I run array push 4 again, let's see what happens now.
The undefined space stays here and instead 4 is appended to the end,
so that's important to understand.
Pushing does not occupy the next undefined space or element, it just takes the end of the array as you
defined it and then adds a new element to it.
Now, we have another method than push and I'll just replace this with four to make this look a bit nicer
than undefined.
I can also call pop
and this doesn't take any arguments. What could pop do, what could show up in the console now?
We see 1, 2, 3, so the last element, 4, was taken off the array and actually array.pop
returns this element.
Therefore I can print this method call out and if I run this, you'll see 4 which is the element
which was taken off returned by this method call here
and then you see the new array, without this last element.
What if I don't want to take the last but the first element?
We also get a function for this, it's called shift.
If I run this, you see I get 1 which is the first element which gets taken off and then I get 2, 3,
4 as the remaining array
and do we have kind of a push, just with inserting it at the beginning of the array?
Yes, it's called unshift and unshift of course takes an element, let's insert a string here
and if I hit run now, you see that now this new element is at the beginning in front of the first element
.
So it's the opposite of push in that way.